## ___MAC Address Flooding___
- MAC Tables - Fixed size, consequently
- Attacks take advantage of this limitation by sending fake source addresses until the table is full
- The switch start flood all incoming frames
- Then actor can use packet sniffing software to capture flooded frames.
- __Attack Mitigation__
	- Cisco switch - 132 000 MAC Addresses
	- Implement _Port Security_
## ___VLAN Hooping___
- Enables one VLAN traffic to be seen by another VLAN without aid of a router.
- Actor configure host to act like a switch + take advantage of the auto trunking.
- Config. the host to spoof 802.1Q signaling the __DTP (Dynamic Trunking Protocol)__.
## ___VLAN Double-Tagging___
- Sends Embed (insert) a hidden 802.1Q tag inside the frame with one tag already.
## ___ARP Attacks___
- Unsolicited ARP request - __gratuitous ARP__.
- host sends a gratuitous ARP, other hosts on the subnet store the MAC + IP address
- Attacker can sends gratuitous ARP with spoofing address
## ___Address spoofing__
- __IP address spoofing__ - hijack a valid address of another device on the subnet.
- __MAC address spoofing__ - alter address to match another known address of a target host
	- when actor sends frame with this address, the switch overwrite the current address.
- Can be mitigated by implementing __IPSG__.
## ___STP Attacks___
- Can change the topology of a network.
- Can make their hosts appear as root bridges.
- The actor broadcasts __BPDUs__ containing config. + topology changes to force STP recalculate.
	- BPDUs sent announce a lower priority.
- 