	## ___Wireless Router___
- Include __switch__, a __port for an internet connection__ and __wireless components__.
- Provides WLAN security, DHCP services, integrated __Name Address Translation (NAT)__, QoS
___
## ___Log in to the Router___
- In the web, enter the default IP of your router 
- Type username and password in the security window.
___
## ___Basic Wireless Setup___
1. __View the WLAN defaults__
2. __Change the network mode__
3. __Configure the SSID__
4. __Change the channel__
5. __Configure the security mode__
6. __Configure the passphrase__
___
## ___Configure a Wireless Mesh Network___
- View the WLAN defaults.
- Change the network mode.
- Configure the SSID.
- Configure the channel.
- Configure the security mode.
- Configure the passphrase.
___
## ___Configure a Wireless Mash Network___
- Extend range using Wireless Access Point
- __45m indoor, 90m outdoor___
- Configure with the same WLAN settings.
- Select non-interfere channels.
___
## ___NAT for IPv4___
- ___Network Address Translation___
- All devices on the router's LAN will get assigned __10.10.10__ prefix.
- Any address with __10__ in first octet is __private__.
___
- Convert private (local) addresses to __internet-routable__ (global) addresses.
- Tracks port number for every session established by a device and make the same public address.
___
## ___Quality of Service___
- Can prioritized some traffic (audio, video) over another.
___
## ___Port Forwarding___
- Wireless routers usually block __TCP + UPD__.
- Rule-based method.
- 