-  The latest standard: __IEEE-802-1D-2004__.
- Used for Local and Metropolitan area network.
- Switches and bridges will rather use RSTP than STP.

## ___Varieties of STP___
__STP (Common Spanning Tree)__
- Original IEEE 802.1d version
- Provide loop-free topology 
- One instance for whole network, regardless of the VLANs

__PVST+ (Per-VLAN Spanning Tree)__
- Cisco enhancement of STP
- Provide separate instance for each VLAN in network
- Supports _PortFast, UplinkFast, BackboneFast, BPDU guard, filter, Root, Loop guard_

__RSTP (Rapid Spanning Tree Protocol)__
- IEEE 802.1w
- Faster convergence

__802.1D-2004
- Update version of the STP

__Rapid PVST+__
- Enhancement RSTP that use PVST+
- Provide separate instance for each VLAN in network
- Supports _PortFast, UplinkFast, BackboneFast, BPDU guard, filter, Root, Loop guard_

__MSTP (Multiple Spanning Tree Protocol)__
- Inspired by the earlier Cisco proprietary _Multiple Instance STP (MISTP)_.
- Maps multiple VLAN into the same instance

__MST (Multiple Spanning Tree)__
- Cisco implementation of MSTP
- Provides up to _16 instances of RSTP_.
- Combine VLANs with same Phys. and Logic. topology into a RSTP instance.
- Supports _PortFast, UplinkFast, BackboneFast, BPDU guard, filter, Root, Loop guard_

> Note: Cisco IOS 15.0 or later - PVST+

## ___RSTP Concepts___
- The same algorithm is used 
- Increases speed of __recalculation__ of the topology when changes.

## ___RSTP Port States and Roles___
__Port States__
- Only three states that corresponds to the three operations.
- __STP__ - Disabled, Blocking, Listening, Learning, Forwarding
- __RSTP__ - Discarding, Learning, Forwarding

__Port Roles__
- __STP__ - Root Port, Designated Port, __Blocked Port (non-designated port)__
- __RSTP__ - Root Port, Designated Port, Backup Port, Alternate Port

__Backup Ports__


## ___PortFast and BPDU Guard___
- Device connected to a switch --> ports goes to _listening and learning_ state --> waiting for the __Forward Delay timer__ to expire.

- Delay - 15 sec. for each state
- Total delay - 30sec.
- Problem for DHCP clients

- Configured __PortFast__ - port goes from _blocking_ to _forwarding_ state immediately.
- Should be used only on _access_ ports

## ___Alternatives to STP___
- 

